is there anything worse than an
uncomfortable conversation or
confrontation with a staff member
employee or partner I don't know about
you but for a lot of entrepreneurs this
is the worst part of being in business
for yourself maybe you've put it off for
too long it's time to be addressed but
you've been dreading it for weeks today
I'm going to simplify the process of
having a difficult conversation and make
it so much easier for you because this
stuff is
important hey my name is shellene
Johnson and welcome to this Edition of
build your tribe I've been an
entrepreneur with staff members for now
over 30 years I think about the number
of people who I've worked with the
number of team members who've been a
part of our team the different companies
that we've built oh my gosh the
different converations the different
weird and awkward positions I've been in
and this is probably one of the most
uncomfortable things you have to do as
an entrepreneur I can't even tell you
how many times how many things I have
probably let go on way too long because
I I just didn't want to have the
conversation I let employees stay with
us too long I let staff members engaged
in Partnerships long after I knew the
partnership was over fear of having
these kinds of conversations is probably
cost me tens of thousands of dollars but
once I kind of did my research and
realized gosh it's just a skill like
anything else so if it's a skill I can
learn how to do it and if I can learn
how to do it I'm going to get better at
it it won't be so awkward I'll get good
at it and eventually I'm going to be
able to teach other people so that's
what we're doing here today but I want
you to know you're normal I want you to
know that not wanting to have this
conversation is very very normal but
there's also a process there's literally
a template that I'm going to share with
you today that works every single time
almost to the point where you're going
to be like who's next who do I have to
have a confrontation with next well
let's start right there first and
foremost you don't want to think of this
as a
confrontation I want you to think of
this almost as like a game an objective
that you have with your business an
objective where you want both parties to
feel like things turned out fairly not
that you're the bad guy or that they're
the bad guy or that you're right and
they're wrong that both parties walk
away from the conversation saying that
was fair all right so let me walk you
through the scenario in fact I bet
you're listening to this episode because
there's someone right now that you need
have this difficult conversation with so
the first thing you want to do and I
know this is really hard is you want to
make kind of a chronological list of
when you started working together and
where we are today that chronological
list should include when you started
working together and what their role was
or how things started in the beginning
all facts no adjectives so we don't want
to say things like in the beginning you
were a rock star now like in the
beginning you did A B C D and E and you
were contracted or we were we had agreed
that you would be paid x amount of
dollars so it's it's all facts but you
want to lay it all out like when did the
person start where are they today or
where did the partnership start whatever
it is lay out all the facts for yourself
these are not things you're going to
share with the other person like it's
not like you're going to create this
Google doc and like send it to them no
this is just for your reference point
okay then under that I want you to list
some positives some things that both of
you would agree went well in the
beginning so start with like the things
are favorable about the situation from
both people's perspective so say for
example we're talking about someone who
you hired to do all of the marketing for
your webinar series anything that was
digital and online you hired them to do
they were the they were the head of
marketing for you so some things that
started off in the beginning is like
they came to you with creative ideas it
was a mutually beneficial relationship
in terms of offering information and it
was also relatively new so we want to
share the things that were kind of true
from both sides of perspectives from
your perspective and from their
perspective from there you want to go
through just the facts and you want to
outline where objectives have been
missed so for example if let's say this
person initially they were contracted to
run all of the Evergreen advertising to
review the website to make sure that SEO
was on point to report the statistics
and numbers and data on a monthly basis
and to come up with initiative to
improve marketing and to decrease the
cost of acquisition for new customers so
you're going to go through the things
that they were contractually obligated
to do or that they were supposed to do
and then just very matter of fact what
did and didn't get done and basically
what you want to do again without
adjectives you just basically want to
say okay and so uh one of the things
that we had agreed was part of this role
was to report on a monthly basis where
we were getting our customers and how we
might create a initiatives to decrease
our cost of acquisition and I think we
can all agree like that the reporting we
we didn't get the reporting on a pretty
regular basis so the way you want to
approach this meeting is very nonchalant
you don't want to have emotion in your
voice you don't want to sound angry you
don't want to sound entitled you don't
want to sound like you're wagging a
finger it's just very matter of fact and
as you go through each item where
there's a discrepancy or things haven't
been as they should be you're basically
just describing it like a scientist if
you're doing this the right way and
you're in an in-person meeting or on a
zoom the other person should be n like
nodding almost and acknowledging almost
with enthusiasm or like like yeah that's
true and sometimes you can say and you
know and things start to change like
you're almost giving them I don't want
to say like permission or the excuse but
you're saying like you know and and
things start to change or you know and
we we weren't meeting on a regular basis
so we weren't getting those numbers so
you're you're almost you're you're never
pointing a finger you're just laying
things out kind of matter of fact
because that's what it's not personal
don't make any part of this personal if
it's personal you've already lost the
battle then it's them versus you this
should just be the two of you reaching a
mutual agreement so you're going through
what did and didn't happen it's really
important at this stage the we've got
dates and specifics without emotion or
adjectives so it's not like never gave
us these monthly reports which really
angered me and you were taking advantage
of us like none of that it should just
be in the facts and as many dates and
specifics as possible okay once we do
that then it's really just a simple
transition statement which is which
leads us to why I thought it would be a
great idea for for us to reassess where
we are today and that's a wonderful way
of just stating like we're we're
reassessing it's not saying that's what
leads me to firing you today or that's
what leads me to terminating and suing
you today like no not like be fair be a
human be chill the bigger deal you make
about this the bigger you make it feel
like it's a monster and it's going to be
like super uncomfortable the more
uncomfortable it is like you're just two
humans so chill out go over the facts
and if if this person has value to you
listen to what I'm about to say your
girl has been in business for many many
years I've seen too many of you throw
away great people because they didn't do
all the things they were supposed to do
but they did a few of the things that
they were supposed to do and they did
them really well and that's still a
value to you if you can keep them and
renegotiate restructure the agreement
that you have between you you win like
good people people that you trust like
literally people that you trust even if
there's some part of the relationship
you can salvage you win so figure out
what you want before you even have this
meeting oftentimes like if if I'm
meeting with someone who it's like okay
I contracted them let's say for like
this huge list of things that I thought
they were going to do for me and let's
just say that they were able to do one
tenth of that list then my objective
going into that is to maintain them for
that on Tenth and to renegotiate the
contract to pay them 90% less but to
keep them for that 10% that they are
doing really well because that's of
Great Value to me like you don't always
have to throw out the baby with a bath
water so I make that transitional
statement which is like and it's super
chill you never want to make the person
feel like they're in the principal's
office and you're unhappy with them
acknowledge what's been going on in
their life acknowledge what they're
doing in their business acknowledge that
they're a human acknowledge that you
want to give them Grace and that they're
probably circumstances outside of their
control or for which you have no
information about and then you just make
that simple transitional stage and and
that's or statement and that's why I
thought we should kind of renegotiate
where we are today with that in mind
what I'd like to do is and then you
offer a suggestion in my estimation or
in my experience I think you can do that
you can offer like here's what I think
this needs to look like or you can say
so you know based on this what is your
recommendation I've said that many times
and I would say 80% of the time the
person I'm having the meeting with is
like if I were you I'd probably
terminate me oh my gosh I'm so
embarrassed like it's like once you lay
it out in that kind of a away like you
know if you're at that stage they kind
of know what they've been doing or what
they haven't been doing and they will
can often acknowledge if you haven't put
them on the defensive that they don't
feel good about their performance and
that's when I want to turn things around
and say like you've been really valuable
in the these particular areas if in fact
you want to maintain the relationship if
it's someone you need to terminate or or
to fire them or to like eliminate the
contract then it's stating to them like
so if you were in my situation and you
were looking at renewing the contract
would would you renew the contract and
you can just put in their court and
again 90% of the time they're going to
say like yeah no I wouldn't this is
horrible I'm so embarrassed or like I
absolutely understand like but you put
in their Court like you literally ask
them what they would do if they were you
or you say to them here's what I would
like to propose or another option is you
can say I'd like to suggest that you do
the small little percentage that you
know that they can do so if you're in
agreement what I'd like to do is send to
you a new proposal so we can restructure
this it's changing the scope of the
relationship it's really no different
from like a friendship that you realize
like this person has value to me but the
scope of the relationship has changed it
doesn't mean I never want to be friends
with them or I never want to speak to
them but things have changed and in
business finding people that you can
trust is so hard now if you don't trust
this person get rid of them ultimately
we want to hire slow and Fire fast but
there are many circumstances where you
don't need to fire this person you just
need to
restructure the relationship the
arrangement I hope that this was helpful
to you you know good people are hard to
find people that we trust are really
hard to find and every single time you
have to find a new person it's an
incredibly expensive and emotionally
taxing Endeavor so if there's any little
piece of this relationship that's worth
salvaging I encourage you to do so
listen it is my goal to be brief to be
bright to make it fun and then be done
ladies and gentlemen we're almost done
we're not done because we're not done
until I ask you to double check and make
sure that you are subscribed are you
subscribed if you're watching here on
YouTube that means you've got to click
that little bell notification you got to
make sure that you're subscribed to this
YouTube channel okay again I love you I
mean it thank you for being here my goal
is to be brief to be bright to make it
fun now we are officially done I'll see
you next
time
[Music]
w